when one ant finds prey she releases a
chemical alarm signal and within seconds
hundreds of ants join the attack there
vary considerably in size the largest is
a soldier 1 and a half centimeters long
and like all the workers she has no eyes
she's totally blind she finds a way
about using her two antennae each
covered in millions of hairs and sensory
pits alive - smells vibrations and touch
her brain is minut instead the large
head is packed with muscles that move
her gigantic razor-sharp jaws
her job is to protect the colony for
even driver ants have enemies and when
heavy duty cutting is required her
powerful jaws can slice through a
victim's skin like a knife through
butter most of the attacking and
butchering though is the job of the
medium worker she's about half the size
of a soldier also blind and equipped
with smaller but toothed studied jaws
between them soldiers and medium workers
can bring down almost anything including
creatures as large and powerful as a
grasshopper
they rely on overwhelming numbers and
sheer persistence to capture their prey
they also provide most of the transport
skittering about their feet is one of
the smaller workers lined like the
others and just three millimeters long
she's a general helper who can do any
job from butchering to building to
cleaning all three types cooperate to
carry push or pull their prey along the
supply lines from the swarms rating
front to their next home